In this doorman web category section, I'm discussing a very important topic related to input element
events.
There will be five related questions to this topic.
Whenever you make a web application or a page, you will always have different types of input elements
like textbox checkbox, radio button, button, etc. And because you have these elements, you also
have a fantastic range of events to deal with.
User Input.
First, two such events I'm discussing are on focus and on blur events.
When an element receives focus or when cursor is placed on the element, the on focus event is fired.
For that particular element on blur is opposite to on focus.
That is, when an element loses the focus, the on Blur event is fired.
Let's check it practically.
I'm continuing with the same previous application where I have a division and that is an action where
I'm displaying the event status.
Now I have placed two text boxes here.
The first textbox has both the events configured.
The first event I return is on focus, but I'm calling the E handler function and passing the text on
focus.
The second event I configured with the same textbox is on Blur.
That means when I come out of the textbox, it should display on Blur in the H1 because the E handler
is called and there is a message passed and I am receiving the on blurred text in message and that I
am displaying in the edge one.
So let me just save this code quickly and go to the output.
Here is the output now.
Now when I click here, you see that on Focus is displayed.
Let me also try to come out of the textbooks and see what happens.
It says on Blur.
So when the cursor comes inside this text box, the on focus is fired.
And when it loses the focus, the on blood is fired.
Now comes the very important event, and that is the on change event and also on input event.
The On Change event is generally configured with dropdown list that is this select and option, but
it can be attached with the textbox checkbox and even radio buttons for text box.
The change event is fired when it loses the focus.
So then what is the difference between on Blur and on change?
That is a question that we will discuss once we configure the event.
So now let's try on change here.
At the moment, I'm keeping on focus as it is, and instead of on Blur, I will just say on change.
And here also I will change the text.
I'll see on change.
Let's go to the output.
The moment I come in the text box, the on focus is fired.
Now, let me just type some text here and I come out of the text box.
So the on change is also fired.
So you might think that was the difference between on blur.
This is same as on blood, but that's not the case.
Let me show you that.
Also, I'm going back to the text box.
You see now it says on focus.
That's fine.
Now, I do not change the text here.
I do not make any changes to this text box.
And if I come out, you will observe that the on change is not fired.
If this was on blur, then it would have executed.
But right now, because I have written the code on on change that gets fired when the element loses
the focus, but provided that there is a change in the value.
So let me try to change the value.
Let's say cancel t and again I go out, then the on change is fired.
So the on blur also gets fired on losing the focus.
Same does the on change, but on change is fired when that is also some content changed in the element.
That is the major difference.
So that on change is also very useful for other elements as well.
Let me add a checkbox here.
Instead of this textbox, I'll just say checkbox.
Now what I want is I'm going to call the on change on the checkbox also.
And here again, I'm going to call the E handler.
Now I want to pass the value of the checkbox.
That is whether the checkbox is jagged or not.
How can I do that?
If you want to get the status of checkbox, that is, is it checked or not?
You can get that by using a check the property.
So what will I do?
I will say this.
That means it is going to refer the checkbox itself and that has the property card checked.
That means if the checkbox is checked, it will send through.
Otherwise it will send false.
Let me also add some text here.
I'll say check me.
Right and also put a break here.
So I'll say break.
So it comes on a new line.
Now I'll refresh.
Now see this click.
You see, the event is fire and it has passed the the value again click now it is false.
So every time I change the content is changed off checkbox.
So it does call it and then I'm passing the value of checkbox.
Now let's try the event with radio buttons.
Let's have two radio buttons.
I'll put a break tag and will have a radio button.
So I'll say radio one and input type is equal to radio.
Let me also have a value property here.
Say Radio one.
Now I'm going to create group of it.
So I'll say name is equal to same because the next radio will also have the same group that is name
will be are only.
Now I see on change I'm going to call the E handler.
What I want is I want to pass the value of radio button that is it tagged or not, but which radio is
checked for that?
I will also pass this dot value.
I'll join it with a dash maybe.
And this dark check.
That means the status, whether it is checked or not.
Let me convert this into single quotes so that it doesn't give any issue.
All right.
And now I'm going to end this radio button.
I'll just copy and paste it.
And this I will name as radio two.
This name will be same because it's a common group.
And here I'll say Radio two.
Both have on change.
The value will be Radio one and Radio two.
Let's see and refresh.
Now, if I click on this, you see it says Radio One, and that is true.
Next is Radio two is true.
So on change event, that means the content is changed and that's the reason why it is getting fired.
This is a very common thing, but mainly the on change event is used extensively with dropdown list
that is the select and option.
So let me quickly use a selected option here.
I'll say break select on change.
I'm going to call the E handler.
Let me keep it as it is for the moment, because there is something else I want to discuss here.
Now I'm going to say option, which you already know how the options are created.
I said list item one and so on.
Let me also have a value here.
I'll say value is equal to one.
And this I will repeat at least four times.
I'll say list one, two, three, four, two, three, four.
And for each option, I'm going to give different values.
Two, three and four.
That's it.
Now, when a dropdown list is present in your page and when there is a change in the item, the on change
will handle it.
Let's say I just want to pass the value, so naturally I am going to set this dot value.
So for each option, the value is given and that value will be assigned.
Let me also give some CCS to this with input.
I have already given some input elements CSIS, so I will use the group selector and will write select
as well.
So the same access will be applied to select as well.
Also, let me increase the height of the division so that is a decent color for all the elements.
Let me refresh.
Here we have the list.
Now, if I click any of the list, you see the value is displayed.
You see this list for.
So the value is displayed.
Now, the question here is what if I want to get the value of this list itself instead of value property?
So whichever item is selected, I want the text of this lesser list to be selected.
Then I want list two here.
That is an options property which is available, which contains an array of all the items.
And there is also one more property called selected index.
So it is something like this.
So looking at the figure two, you can understand that internally.
Options is like this and each element can be referred using the selected index.
So what I can do, I can.
Instead of passing this stored value, I can see this dot options, which is actually an ADI and that
has the index number, which is the selected index.
And I want the text of that selected index.
Let me save this and refresh the page.
Now, if I click, you see the data is appearing as we are expecting.
Also, if I just move the cursor here, if the value is changing and the event is fired, I'm just using
the up and down arrow and you can see that the event is executed.
So that's how on change can be used with various elements.
There is also one more event which can be used for text boxes and that event is on input.
So let me quickly talk about that also.
I'm going to put one more text box here.
I'll say input type equals to text.
And on input we are going to have the E handler.
And I can pass the value here.
Whatever value one enters in the textbooks that we get it now on input is somewhat like a key price
or maybe key that is a keyboard and that means every character you press the on input is fired.
Let me just go to the output.
Refresh the screen.
Here is the on input event.
You see this every time I type something, it gets fired.
So on input is a very commonly used event with textbooks.
If you are comparing it with key press or maybe key up, then that is again a major difference.
And the difference is that input here can be given by, let's say control v, that is, I am pasting
the content, right?
Or maybe I might use some voice input.
Right.
In all the cases, whether you paste it, whether somebody adds the data by speaking in all the ways
the on input is fired, whereas the key press will not fire in such cases.
So key press anyway is not used often these days, but keep this kind of event or maybe key down if
you are comparing it with an input that on every character changes.
And the major difference is that even when you right click and paste it, for example, again, I paste
it, then it gets fired every time I see paste or maybe it's a paste this way control we then also input
is fired.
This doesn't happen with the key press events.
Now let's discuss related questions of this topic.
The first question is what is the difference between on blah and on change event?
So the on blur gets fired on losing the focus.
Same does the on change, but on change is fired when that is also some content change in the element.
That is the major difference.
The second question is how will you handle events of checkbox and radio buttons?
Well, we have already seen that we can use the on change event for textbooks, for checkbox or even
radio buttons for CheckBox and radio buttons.
You can also use the click event as well.
So it depends on the type of event.
But yes, on change is one of the event which is generally used with checkbox and radio like elements.
The third question is differentiate on key press or on key up and on input even.
So as I just mentioned that when we use the on up, if somebody, let's say right click and paste the
content or maybe the audio that is device input is going to the text box.
In those cases, the on key upper key press will not be fired, whereas on input is a kind of event
which fires in all the cases.
When that is an input by any media weed control, we are maybe device input.
The fourth question is which event you prefer with the select that is the dropdown list.
So on change is one of the event which you can use often with the select that is the dropdown list.
The fifth question is how will you get the text value of selected item from a select element that is
a dropdown list?
So this was the code we tried.
That is we use the options A-D and we use the selected index to get the current value of the dropdown
list.